# mbpol_i-pi

This code provides the interface to i-PI code for performing classical and path-integral molecular dynamics simulations using MB-pol many-body water potential. 

The development of `MB-pol` started with a detailed analysis of the two- and three-body water interactions evaluated at the CCSD(T) level to quantitatively assess the accuracy of current force fields, DFT models, and ab initio based interaction potentials that are commonly used in molecular simulations [1]. On the basis of this analysis, the full-dimensional MB-pol  potential was developed entirely from "first principles" building upon the many-body expansion of the interaction energy of water molecules [2,3]. 

`MB-pol` explicitly treats the one-body (intramolecular distortion energy) term and the short-ranged two- and three-body terms. `MB-pol` can thus be viewed as a classical polarizable potential supplemented by short-range two- and three-body terms that effectively represent quantum-mechanical interactions arising from the overlap of the monomer electron densities. Specifically, at all separations, the total MB-pol two-body term includes (damped) dispersion forces derived from ab initio computed asymptotic expansions of the dispersion energy along with electrostatic contributions due to the interactions between the molecular permanent and induced moments. At short-range, this two-body term is supplemented by a 4th-degree permutationally invariant polynomial that smoothly switches to zero as the oxygen-oxygen separation in the dimer approaches 6.5 Angstrom. Similarly, the `MB-pol` three-body term includes a three-body polarization term at all separations, which is supplemented by a short-range 4th-degree permutationally invariant polynomial that effectively corrects for the deficiencies of a purely classical representation of the three-body interactions in regions where the electron densities of the three monomers overlap. This short-range three-body contribution is smoothly switched off once the oxygen-oxygen separation between any water molecule and the other two water molecules of a trimer reaches a value of 4.5 Angstrom. In `MB-pol`, all induced interactions are described through many-body polarization. `MB-pol` thus contains many-body effects at all monomer separations as well as at all orders, in an explicit way up to the third order and in a mean-field fashion at all higher orders. 

Without containing any empirical parameters, `MB-pol` accurately describes the properties of gas-phase clusters, including the dimer vibration-rotation tunneling spectrum  [2], the second and third virial coefficients [2,3], and cluster structures and energies [3]. Simulations carried out with path-integral molecular dynamics (PIMD) and centroid molecular dynamics (CMD) demonstrate that MB-pol provides a highly accurate description of the liquid phase of water at ambient conditions in comparison with experiment for several structural, thermodynamic, and dynamical properties [4]. Many-body molecular dynamics (MB-MD) simulations carried out with `MB-pol` in combination with many-body representations of the dipole moment (`MB-mu`) and polarizability (`MB-alpha  `), built upon the convergence of the many-body expansion of the electrostatic properties of water [5], predict infrared (IR) and Raman spectra of liquid water in agreement with the experimental results [6].


References:

1. [G.R. Medders, V. Babin, and F. Paesani, J. Chem. Theory Comput. 9, 1103–1114 (2013)](http://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/ct300913g).
2. [V. Babin, C. Leforestier, and F. Paesani, J. Chem. Theory Comput. 9, 5395–5403 (2013)](http://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/ct400863t).
3. [V. Babin, G.R. Medders, and F. Paesani, J. Chem. Theory Comput. 10, 1599–1607 (2014)](http://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/ct500079y).
4. [G.R. Medders, V. Babin, and F. Paesani, J. Chem. Theory Comput. 10, 2906–2910 (2014)](http://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/ct5004115).
5. [G.R. Medders, and F. Paesani, J. Chem. Theory Comput. 9, 4844–4852 (2013)](http://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/ct400696d).
6. [G.R. Medders, and F. Paesani, J. Chem. Theory Comput. 11, 1145–1154 (2015)](http://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/ct501131j).
